Abstract:
    Humankind has had a long technological journey. From the on-demand creation of fire, to agriculture, to the start of society, itself. Ever since the dawn of civilization, humankind has continued to push the envelope of what is possible. The next technological era on the horizon is called, the Internet of Things (or IoT, for short). The Internet of Things covers everything connected to the Internet, but the idea of IoT is more focused on objects that “talk” to each other via the internet or in an internet like fashion (i.e. Bluetooth, Ethernet, Wi-Fi and more). From almost everything inside your home, to your vehicle, to yourself! With heart monitors that connect to the Internet and other medical devices that stay connected to the Internet, even humans aren’t exempt from becoming a part of the Internet of Things. (Burgess, 2018)
    The Internet of Things isn’t human kind’s ultimate triumph and some wonder whether it should even be something we strive for. There are so many great and amazing things that will be possible with the Internet of Things, but at what price? Over the course of this paper, you will read about just what the Internet of Things is and what it is capable of. Is the Internet of Things a good thing or is it a bad thing? That depends on who you ask.

Keywords:
Internet of Things (IoT), Privacy, Technology, Security, Hacking


Introduction:
    The Internet of Things is the newest paradigm shift, where nearly everything will be able to be connected in an Internet like fashion. “Nearly everything” truly does mean, “nearly everything.” Your tennis shoes connected to the Internet? Nike Fitbit, goes in your shoe, keeps track of your steps, then sends that data to your smart device to let you know how far you have walked or ran and how many calories you burned doing so. Other things, like RFID (Radio-Frequency Identification) tags, can be used to help in shipping and other commercial uses. (Eli the Computer Guy, 2013) Smart homes, armed with the ability to lock your doors, set your home alarm, turn your air conditioner off or on or control its temperature, turning your lights on or off and so much more, all from your smart device. 
    The possibilities are truly only limited by society’s imagination. Sounds amazing doesn’t it? Well, not so fast. Imagine coming home from vacation and finding your entire house has been robbed! Were the doors kicked in? The doors, the door frames, the locks ... all untouched. Were the windows smashed? Nope. Even those smudges and streaks that you just didn’t have the time to clean, because you were too busy packing and dreaming about that vacation you were about to embark upon, are all unfortunately still there. If they are going to steal all your valuables, they could have at least broken out the Windex and tidied up the place a bit. Am I right? What’s going on here? A hacker was able to hack into your smart home using their smart device and remotely unlock your doors, disable your security cameras and disable your alarm! They were able to find out you were on vacation, all thanks to those vacation photos you naively posted on social media. While you were posting pictures of those amazing Oceanside frozen sangria margaritas, the hacker and their buddies, were helping themselves to that 65” Ultra 4K television that you couldn’t wait to watch the next episode of Game of Thrones on. Not only that, but they could have hacked into your home security cameras, the camera on your Roomba, that cute teddy bear you bought your 10-year-old daughter that has a nanny camera in it and just about anything else in your home that has both a camera and the ability to connect to the internet. They could have used all this footage to learn the layout of your home and possibly where you store your valuables. As with anything else ever invented, from religion, to dynamite and everything in between, there will always be that certain group of people that use society’s advancements for their very own nefarious needs.

The Duality of the Internet of Things
The Cost of Doing Business:
    One of the things that IoT will do is collect data. Lots and lots and lots of data. From what you like to eat at home or at a restaurant, to what time you wake up and what time you go to sleep, to where you drive and when you drive. The list of data that will be collected during the IoT is almost endless. Why collect that data? For a variety of reasons, but the main reason … to better target you for advertisements of things to buy. That data is valuable … extremely valuable! The Big Data market was worth an estimated $125B in 2015! (Tozzi, 2017) It is hard to find an accurate representation of what the Big Data market is truly worth, but with more and more data being collected every year, it is plain to see that this is a rapidly growing, valuable market. 
    One of the possible reasons it is so hard to find accurate information about the Big Data market, is that the Big Data market doesn’t have the most stellar reputation for always being on the up and up. On March 17th of 2018, the Guardian and the New York Times broke the story of the Big Data scandal involving Facebook and the British political consulting firm, Cambridge Analytica (hereafter, abbreviated as C.A.) C.A. collected the data of 87 million Facebook users without their knowledge. C.A. collected this data from people who participated in a Facebook quiz app. C.A. was able to collect data from people who didn’t even take the quiz, as well. Thanks to a loophole in the Facebook API (Application Programming Interface), C.A. was able to collect data from the people who were just friends with the person who took the quiz. So, the people who never interacted with the quiz app, still got their data harvested (Grothaus, 2018), even without the joy of spending 45 minutes to find out that they are a coconut. C.A. sold this data to the Donald Trump campaign. The Trump campaign then used this data to target election messages at Facebook users during the 2016 presidential election campaign. (Grothaus, 2018)
    The Facebook / Cambridge Analytica scandal was far from the first Big Data scandal and it certainly won’t be the last. Even governments are in on the act. Edward Snowden ring any bells? More and more companies will rise during the IoT to meet the demand for data. Not only data, but companies that are able to turn that data into information and knowledge, will be invaluable. Imagine knowing nearly everything about your potential customers and the kind of advantages that would give you. The temptation to obtain that data is so great, that some companies and firms are willing to break, bend and skirt the rules in order to obtain it. The Big Data industry often operates in a legal, ethical and moral grey area. One of human kind’s wants, needs and rights, is privacy (or at least used to be a right. We are looking at you, “Patriot Act”).
    The Big Data industry won’t be slowing down or getting any less intrusive any time soon. So what kind of data is being collected? Data is being collected about what temperature you like to keep your home during each season of the year, the kinds of items you use a credit card to buy, where you like to shop, what hours of the day that you are generally awake, where you drive to, where you live and everything else. Where and how are they getting this data? Everything from your home security system, to your credit card receipts, to the books you check out at the library, to your internet history (I bet I really have the full attention of some of you now), to your smart home settings and pretty much anything that is connected to the internet in one form or another.
    One of the issues with all this data collection, is the unwritten rule that anything that is connected to the internet can be hacked and IoT products are certainly not exempt from this rule. (Burgess, 2018) Even technology companies are not immune to hackers and the vulnerabilities associated with being connected to the internet. On October 3rd, 2013 Adobe announced that hackers had stolen nearly 3 million encrypted customer credit card records, as well as login information for an undetermined number of Adobe user accounts. This breach also branched out to include Adobe’s Photoshop family of graphical design products. All in all, this one breach impacted at least 38 million people. Other companies that have been involved in a data breach, in one form or another include: Apple, AT&T, Google Plus, Hilton Hotels, U.S. Medicaid, and many, many more. (Krebs, 2013) The list of major companies not involved in a data breach, might be shorter than the list of the companies that have been involved in a data breach.  There seems to be a different news story every couple of months about another data breach. Those are just the stories of large companies that have been hacked and suffered a data breach. That doesn’t include the millions upon millions of internet connected devices in the hands of the average person. 
    Samsung’s Open Economy document is a report commissioned by Samsung and released in February of 2017, states that if by 2020 companies have not opened their software and devices to competitors, innovators and freelancers to interact and communicate with their devices and software, that company will struggle to compete and prosper in what Samsung calls the “Open Economy.” (Samsung, 2017) Basically, with how many devices that will be out in the market by 2020, if your company’s software or device isn’t completely compatible with competitor’s software and devices, your company’s device will not do well. Samsung’s Open Economy document says “there is a very clear danger that technology is running ahead of the game” and that more than 7.3 billion devices will need to be made secure by their manufacturers before 2020. IoT botnets, created using a network of out-of-date devices for the purpose of gaming Minecraft, took large websites and services offline in 2016. (Burgess, 2018)

Where Did it Come From? Where Did it Go?
    Alan Turing was a brilliant, British mathematician and logician, who is often credited as the father of modern computing, developed the idea of the modern computer and artificial intelligence. (E2BN, n.d.) In 1950, Alan Turing proposed building machines that could sense and learn from their surroundings and in 1966, German Karl Steinbuch, described a future in which computers were stitched into just about anything. Then, in 1982, a group of computer science graduate students at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania developed one of the first non-computer objects to go online. These students had grown tired of a long, arduous journey to a soda vending machine only to find out that the vending machine did not have any cold cans of their favorite soda. So the students connected the vending machine to the university’s computer network. Problem solved. The students could now know which sodas were stocked in the vending machine and when they stocked. So they knew whether the cans had the time to become cold. All this knowledge before taking one step outside towards the vending machine. It wasn’t until 1999 that British technology entrepreneur Kevin Ashton used the title of “Internet of Things” for a presentation at Proctor and Gamble and is credited as the first to coin the term “Internet of Things.” (Maple, 2017) Then, in 2013, the term was published in the Oxford English Dictionary. (Ornes, 2016)
    In a lot of ways, IoT was inevitable. The reasons for any invention ever made, has been to fulfill a need and to make our lives easier. The Internet of Things has the potential to do those things to an almost unbelievable extent. IoT affords the opportunity to know what your pet is up to when you are not at home (“get off the couch, Fido!”), the vitals of an elderly loved one that lives four states away, to have your favorite cup of coffee freshly brewed and waiting for you when you wake up, to let you know how your stock portfolio is doing in real time and so much more. Technology is always advancing, but something about IoT feels different. IoT feels like the beginning of a true, new age. Arnold Schwarzenegger Sci-Fi thrillers aside, Artificial Intelligence does present real danger. 
    It is estimated that by 2020, there will be 20 – 50 billion objects connected online. The two components connected objects share, are a sensor to collect data and a way to communicate that data. (Ornes, 2016) A huge part of the future of the Internet of Things, lies in the automobile industry. It Is predicted that by 2020, self-driving cars will be wide spread. (Albert, 2018) There really isn’t a single facet of modern living that won’t be affected by IoT. 
    Erik Brynjolfsson and Andrew McAffee talk about in their book, The Second Machine Age (2014), how it may take years for people to realize the capabilities of IoT and how to best use the technology to its full potential. Brynjolfsson and McAffee talk about how it was the same way for electricity and computers. The invention of electricity and computers are pretty big and defining in the history of human civilization and for them to compare the Internet of Things to electricity and computers, should give an idea about how big IoT could change the course of human life. (Blomquist , Saarikko, Westergren, 2017)    

The Robots are Stealing all our Jobs:   
    Driverless automobiles, airplanes that can fly themselves, self-checkout lines, ordering kiosks at your local McDonald’s and manufacturing robots. These are just some of the things that are already in use today that are doing jobs that used to be done by humans. Technology has already taken 90% of the jobs once done by humans. A hundred years ago, the majority of workers, worked on farms. Thanks to the advancement of technology, only 2% of Americans work on farms today. Seventy years ago, over 3% of the American workforce was employed by the railroad industry. Only 0.1% of the American workforce is employed by the railroad industry today, but the railroad industry moves nearly three times the freight that it used to. (Luk, 2018)
    Think about just the automobile industry. A little over a hundred years ago, there were millions of jobs, directly or indirectly, related to the horse drawn carriages. From people who shoed horses, to people who cleaned up after the horses, to the people who built the carriages, to the drivers of the carriages and so on. (Luk, 2018) Along came Henry Ford and his moving assembly line. Making the production of cars not only faster, but much cheaper. All of the sudden, automobiles became readily available and affordable for a lot of people. There aren’t very many jobs related to the horse drawn carriage industry anymore, but there is a lot of jobs associated with the automobile industry. From road making, to car production, to after-market parts for vehicles, to mechanics and many more jobs. This example, demonstrates how technology has historically taken jobs, but created new job markets to replace the jobs lost in the newly defunct job fields. It is hard to imagine how many job fields will open up, in regards to all the jobs that IoT stands to take away.
    It is hard to think of any job today that will not be effected by IoT. There are an estimated 3.5 million professional truck drivers in the United States today. (All Trucking, 2016) Driverless technology is quickly becoming safer than vehicles driven by humans. It is predicted that semis could be driverless in the next decade. Driverless semi-trucks could reduce traffic on the highways, improve safety, improve fuel efficiency and drastically improve productivity. (ATBS, 2018) Drivers need breaks, drivers can get lost, drivers can get behind the wheel after having one too many Coors Lights, drivers can take detours to get some of Mama Suzanne’s Down Home Country Pies, drivers can drive too slow or too fast and get ticketed and so on and then, after all that, demand to be paid. The gall! Take all this into account and it is easy to see the direction that the transportation of goods industry is going. There are more jobs that human drivers fulfill, like taxis, your local Pizza Hut delivery driver, the 15-year-old’s first job of delivering newspapers … all gone to driverless vehicles. 
    It is not hard to imagine a future where semi-trucks are built by machines that are supplied parts, delivered by driverless semi-trucks. The semi-trucks built at that plant are driverless and deliver the food to your local McDonald’s. You sit in the back seat of your autonomous car as it pulls up to the drive thru. You have already placed your order on your smart phone and the payment automatically gets deducted from your bank account. Your perfectly cooked meal, prepared by machines, slides out the window on the side of the building. You grab it and tell your car to take you home. Even highly skilled jobs could be taken away as Artificial Intelligence will be able to make better, more informed decisions than any human could ever dream of. This future could create wealth inequality not even dreamed of, as all the power and wealth could be held by just a few people. 

New Era, New Crimes, New Criminals:
    All this new technology, presents all new opportunities for criminals. No longer will robbers need to buy guns and ski masks. Just a decent internet connection, an internet connected device and a little know how. Instead of pick-pocketing strangers for $100 and some stolen credit cards, criminals in the age of the Internet of Things will be able to steal millions of dollars from places halfway around the world. Russian hackers were able to steal 650 million pounds from banking institutions. The hackers used malware in nearly 100 banking institutions over the course of two years. The malware so was so sophisticated, the hackers were able to view video feeds of secure offices from around the world, which helped them to steal the 650 million pounds or nearly 845 million United States dollars! (Evans, 2015) 
    From stealing money electronically, to murdering someone from anywhere in the world. Hackers are able to hack into vehicles made after 2005. Some scientists have warned that hackers could have already killed people using this tactic and it would be very hard to prove. Hackers can remotely take control of a vehicle and cause it to wreck. From GPS and on board cameras, the hackers could control your vehicle like it was a video game and make your vehicle do whatever they want. This is not only a danger, but an inevitably. Another opportunity for murder lies in the IoT medical applications. A hacker could hack into an unsuspecting person’s pace maker and turn it off to stop the heart of their victim. As mentioned previously in this paper, every new advancement that human kind makes, there will always be people looking to exploit the new advancement for their own wants and needs.
    Another area of crime that will become increasingly popular is the selling of identities and credit cards on the dark web. This is nothing new and is currently going on today, but this will become more and more of a problem as governments talk about getting rid of paper money in favor of all digital currency. There will also be a rise in home burglaries. The more IoT technology that comes onto the market, the more dangerous and far reaching hackers become. The ability to be able to completely map out your target’s home, know where their valuables might be, to know the resident’s schedules and to know what they have available for you to steal, is like a dream come true for thieves. Along with being able to buy people’s identities and credit card information online, it is not hard to imagine hackers selling hacked home surveillance of residences from across the world to anyone who wants to pay for that information.


Conclusion:
    The Internet of Things is a fascinating subject to think about it, predict and debate. There are so many facets to the topic. From the nefarious, to the mundane, to the era shifting, life changing possibilities. Society has always been fascinated with technology. It is easy to imagine the first caveman to invent an arrowhead showing it off to his fellow hunters in amazement. We define eras based on the available technology. From the Stone Age, to the Bronze Age, to history and prehistory. 
    The Internet of Things is something new. Something that stands to change almost every facet of life on Earth as we know it. There is great hope and wonderment at the thought of that, but there is also great anxiety and dread. 
    Humankind could be on the brink of technology that allows us to live for decades longer, with the advancement of medicine and devices that monitor our vitals 24/7 and Artificial Intelligences thinking up new medicines and cures that the human mind is not capable of understanding. Artificial Intelligence could help us answer questions once thought too big to understand, like the meaning of life and “why are we here?” Artificial Intelligence could help us understand everything from the inner workings of the human body to unlocking the answers to the cosmos and leading to ways for humankind to explore the universe. However, like Uncle Ben said to Peter Parker, “With great power, comes great responsibility.” Humankind needs to tread carefully into this brave new world, for the very things that help us to live, may be the very things to deprive us of life and what it means to be alive.
